# sleep-inference
What are the most influential variables for sleep quality?

The full report can be viewed in the repository, but in case you just want the highlights: 

* We explored the relationships between sleep quality as measured by sleep efficiency, and 9 other variables. From our additive model, Age, REM Sleep Percentage, Deep Sleep Percentage, Alcohol Consumption, Smoking Status, and Exercise Frequency were shown to be linearly correlated with sleep quality, with statistical significance. Specifically, there is a positive relationship between Sleep Efficiency and Age, along with REM Sleep Percentage, Deep Sleep Percentage, and Exercise Frequency. In contrast, the model shows a negative relationship between Sleep Efficiency and being a smoker and between Sleep Efficiency and Alcohol Consumption. These results are expected, as many of these relationships are well documented in other research.

* The most interesting of these results is the relationship between aging and sleep quality, as the elderly tend to have the worst quality of sleep compared to all other age groups. However, this is explained through our dataset, where the grand majority of participants are under the age of 65, and since research shows that those between the ages of 45 to 65 experience the best sleep quality, this is likely why we found a positive relationship between Sleep Efficiency and Age (Li et. al., 2018).
In our interaction model, we explored interactions between Gender and other lifestyle factors, along with Smoking and some lifestyle factors. We found only one of our 6 tested interactions to be statistically significant: the Smoking Status ⨉ Alcohol Consumption. This showed that in comparison to non-smokers, the magnitude of the negative associations between Alcohol Consumption and Sleep Efficiency is significantly bigger in smokers. This could have interesting impacts on those who are both heavy drinkers and heavy smokers, who may experience an increase in their sleep quality just by attempting to quit one of their habits. This model also found Age, REM Sleep Percentage, Deep Sleep Percentage, and Exercise Frequency to be statistically significant.

* Overall, our findings suggest that Age, REM Sleep Percentage, Deep Sleep Percentage, Exercise Frequency, Smoking & Alcohol Consumption are the factors most correlated with Sleep Efficiency. In the future, it would be beneficial to look at these variables in more detail, for example, a wider range of ages or the number of cigarettes smoked per day among smokers. 

